{"entries":[{"caption":"Fig. A3: Spectral variability as a function of the number of measurements averaged per measurement. Here, a total of 100 spectral measurements were collected from a single Annona sp. leaf using an ASD LabSpec Pro spectrometer over a black background. Subsets of these measurements were then averaged in groups ranging from 2 to 40 to simulate different measurement strategies. The plot shows the root mean square (RMS) distance between replicate spectra as a function of the number of measurements averaged, illustrating that spectral variability decreases substantially as more measurements are combined. Notably, averaging fewer than five measurements did not adequately capture intra-tissue spectral variation. This analysis supported the required minimum of 10 measurements per specimen for the formal protocol currently implemented by teams at CIRAD and IRD in France (Mersni et al. 2025).","key":"fig-a-3","order":{"number":3,"section":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Fig. A1: Variability in spectral measurements due to instrument configuration and technical error. The following spectral measurements are shown: white calibration standard (red), black background (orange), standard adaxial measurement with black background (light green), standard adaxial measurement but with narrow-angle lens following recalibration (dark green), adaxial measurement where the tissue did not fully cover the optical field of view (i.e., backgroundInMeasurement = TRUE; blue), and a folded leaf (purple). All measurements were made of the same tissue using an SVC HR-1024i spectroradiometer.","key":"fig-a-1","order":{"number":1,"section":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0]}},{"caption":"Fig. A2: Accuracy of taxonomic discrimination as a function of the number of averaged measurements per specimen. Three tissue class datasets are analyzed: combined adaxial and abaxial spectra (circles), abaxial only (squares), and adaxial only (triangles). Each point represents the average classification accuracy from 50 replicate linear discriminant analysis models, using randomized subsampling and test set validation. Error bars indicate 95% confidence intervals. The vertical gray line marks the minimum number of spectral measurements (n = 5), below which accuracy significantly decreases (Tukey test, P ≤ 0.05). Data were collected using an FT-NIR spectrometer (1000–2500 nm) from 10 species in Lecythidaceae, including eight Eschweilera and two Corythophora species. Accuracy increases notably between one and five spectra per specimen, after which performance stabilizes, indicating diminishing returns beyond five measurements. This figure is reproduced from Durgante et al. (2013) with permission from the publisher.","key":"fig-a-2","order":{"number":2,"section":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0]}}],"headings":["navigate-the-protocol"],"options":{"fig-title":""}}